Smart Contract Build Reference (#492)
ElrondNetwork/docs.elrond.com: docs/developers/developer-reference/smart-contract-build-reference.md

The next question is how will this function be called. Whenever we compile the WASM contracts, we also produce the ABIs in JSON format. Rust has something called build scripts, which get called _after_ compiling a project, but for reasons that will become apparent later, they are not powerful enough for our usecase.

Therefore, we have decided to include an extra crate in each smart contract project. It is always found in the `meta` folder in a contract, and it handles the entire build. To minimize boilerplate, it always only contains one line, that simply defers execution to the framework:

```rust
fn main() {
    elrond_wasm_debug::meta::perform::<my_contract_crate::AbiProvider>();
}
```

To produce the ABI, in fact, it is enough to call:

```sh
cd meta
cargo run
```

The meta crate has access to the ABI generator, because it always has a dependency to the contract crate. This is the `my_contract_crate::AbiProvider` in the example above.

This is also the step where the meta crate parses and processes the `multicontract.toml` file. If there are multiple outputs, one ABI will be produced for each.

### d. Meta crate: generating `wasm` crate code

> Each contract must contain at least one `wasm` crate. This is a separate crate from the contract crate, because it has a different purpose: it only needs to be the basis for compiling wasm. Take it as an intermediary step between the contract logic and the Rust to WASM compiler. This is also where the WASM compilation options are specified (e.g. the optimization level). These options can be seen in the the `Cargo.toml` file of the `wasm` crate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each contract must contain at least one `wasm` crate. This is separate from the contract crate because it has a different purpose: it only needs to be the basis for compiling wasm. Please take it as an intermediary step between the contract logic and the Rust to WASM compiler. This is also where the WASM compilation options are specified (e.g. the optimization level). These options can be seen in the `Cargo.toml` file of the `wasm` crate.
```

> The separation is important, because it means that the smart contract crate can act as a pure rust crate, with no knowledge of WebAssembly. This makes it easy to test, coverage, and integrate in other unrelated technologies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The separation is necessary because, in this way, the smart contract crate can act as a pure rust crate with no knowledge of WebAssembly. This makes testing, coverage, and integration easy in other unrelated technologies.
```

> The `wasm` crates do not add any meaningful code to the the smart contract, everything they need to do is to provide an adapter to the WASM function syntax. More specifically, they expose an external function for each desired endpoint, which simply forwards execution to the corresponding smart contract method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `wasm` crates do not add any meaningful code to the smart contract. Everything they need to do is to provide an adapter to the WASM function syntax. More specifically, they expose an external function for each desired endpoint, which forwards execution to the corresponding smart contract method.
```

> If we are not careful, there is a risk of adding unwanted endpoints to the contract. A classic example is when we have a crate with multiple modules, of which only one is imported into the smart contract. In some older versions you might have gotten unwanted endpoints from the other modules of that crate. In order to avoid this, we are using the ABI to generate a curated list of endpoints in each `wasm` crate. This way, our contracts always have the exact same endpoints as the ones specified in the ABIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we are not careful, we risk adding unwanted endpoints to the contract. A classic example is when we have a crate with multiple modules, of which only one is imported into the smart contract. In some older versions, you might have gotten unwanted endpoints from the other modules of that crate. To avoid this, we are using the ABI to generate a curated list of endpoints in each `wasm` crate. This way, our contracts always have the exact same endpoints as the ones specified in the ABIs.
```

////////////////// AUTO-GENERATED //////////////////
////////////////////////////////////////////////////

// Number of endpoints: 2

#![no_std]

elrond_wasm_node::wasm_endpoints! {
    adder
    (
        getSum
        add
    )
}

elrond_wasm_node::wasm_empty_callback! {}
```

The `elrond_wasm_node` macros help keep even this generated code to a minimum.

For multi-contract builds, one `wasm` crate needs to be generated for each of the output contracts:
- The main wasm crate must always reside in the `wasm` folder. The source file is auto-generated, but the `Cargo.toml` must be provided by the developer.
- The other wasm contracts (called "secondary") receive a crate folder starting with `wasm-`, e.g. `wasm-multisig-view`. These crates are fully generated based on data from `multicontract.toml`. The respective `Cargo.toml` files are based on the the `Cargo.toml` of the main wasm crate. All configs are taken from there, except for the crate name.
- Warning: Any folders starting with `wasm-` that are unaccounted for will be removed without prompt. This is to keep the folder structure clean in case of renames.

### e. Meta crate: the actual WASM build

> The previous two steps happen by just calling `cargo run` in the meta crate, but to actually perform a build, one must call `cargo run build`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous two steps happen by just calling `cargo run` in the meta crate, but to perform a build, one must call `cargo run build`.
```

> With the ABI information and the code generated, the meta crate can now actually build all the WASM contracts, one for each output contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the ABI information and the code generated, the meta crate can now build all the WASM contracts, one for each output contract.
```

The optimizer `wasm-opt` is also run on each of the resulting binaries (unless opted-out in the configs).

The rust compiler places the result in the designated `target` folder, but for convenience, the meta crate moves the executables to the contract's `output` folder and renames them according to the configured names.

> You might have performed this step automatically from erdpy, but erdpy actually just calls the meta crate to do this job. This is because at this point only the meta crate has access to the ABIs and can do it that easily.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might have performed this step automatically from erdpy, but erdpy actually calls the meta crate to do this job. This is because at this point only the meta crate has access to the ABIs and can do it that easily.
```
